---
title: Ruby without Borders
layout: post
---
If you're (a) reading this and (b) not my mom, chances are good you write software for a living, and that you may have seen the short talk I gave last September inviting you over here to work for a few weeks. ("video":http://lsrc2008.confreaks.com/16-matthew-todd-ruby-without-borders.html, "slides":http://github.com/matthewtodd/ruby_without_borders)

We've got an awesome gig ahead, and if you've found this idea intriguing, now would be a great time to be thinking about joining us.

h3. The Gig

All nepotism aside, "Amani Children's Home":http://amanikids.org is in a fascinating place in its development now, shaking off the crises of early growth and really starting to come into its own.

All of their records, however, are still on paper.

You can see where this is going.

_But can we discover the right system to build?_ These dozen teachers and social workers are largely computer un-saavy. Can we build their confidence and actually make their lives easier?

Clearly, we'll be taking an XP/Getting Real approach, working on site and looking to deliver value as often as possible. And, awesomely, Valerie has already been taking steps to establish a culture of organizational learning at Amani, giving a quick staff workshop on the "Action Learning Cycle":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Action_research just last week.

h3. The Team

* <p>*Joe Ventura*, Amani's Communications Coordinator and The Customer. Joe's my good friend, and this will be our third project together. He gets it.</p>
* <p>*Japhary Salum*, Amani's Social Work Coordinator. Japhary is scary brilliant, like "Austin":http://twitter.com/dotjerky.</p>
* <p>*Joachim Mangilima*, Developer. Joachim and I have been pair programming together for the past year. He's an avid learner and is growing well as a developer. It would be awesome for him to get some outside influence "other than me":http://blog.objectmentor.com/articles/2009/01/20/multi-dimensional-seniority!</p>

h3. ... and You?

It would be absolutely fantastic if you could come sit in with us for a few weeks!

We'll be aiming to start around the end of April, with the project continuing through the summer, making now the perfect time to price plane tickets, renew your passport, and see to it that all your shots are up-to-date.

